Substrate 0.3.0
===

Substrate is a GUI tool which makes it easy to build text processing
pipelines.

Thanks its ability to display intermediate results from the middle of your
pipeline, it's easy to spot which parts of your pipelines don't behave as they
should.


How to use Substrate
---

The pipeline is represented by a sequence of nodes. Each node feeds its output
to the node immediately below.

You probably want to begin with a Text node, seeding the pipeline by typing
some initial text. Alternatively, the all-purpose Bash node could be used to
import text from an outside source. In the common case where the outside source
is a file, the File node might be more appropriate. Choosing it will allow
Substrate to monitor the file for changes, and re-run the pipeline with the new
contents.

When used later in the pipeline, our handy Bash node can also be used to apply
external filters, log progress, or save the pipeline result to a file. Using
the F5 key, you can run your script up to and including the current line (the
script's output goes to Subtrate's stdout, outside the Substrate window). This
becomes very convenient when debugging long Bash scripts.


While you are free to use the full power of the Bash language, Substrate will
be more helpful if you conentrate on chaining a sequence of commands using
pipes. Otherwise, if you try to press F5 inside a variable definition, a
function, or a loop, the truncated script won't be valid Bash code, and you
won't be able to see your intermediate result.

Once again, the solution is to use a more specialized node. For loops, you can
use the Each Line node, which divides the text into multiple outputs. Only one
output at a time will be visible, making it easy to debug the rest of the
pipeline. When you are satisfied with the behaviour of a single iteration, you
can append a Concat node to see the result of all the iterations at once.


While the Each Line node can run many inputs through a single pipeline, the
Each Pipeline node can run, instead, a single input through multiple pipelines.
This way, Substrate nodes may be arranged not only in sequence (in a pipeline),
but also or in parallel.
